README.md, before:

# HiCube

HiCube is a web application provides interactive visualization of multiscale and multimodal Hi-C and 3D genome data. 

HiCube provides following unique features and functionality:

- Paired case synchronization
- Zoom view at higher resolution
- Add configurable annotations

![Overview](docs/img/figure-1.png)

[Demo site](https://hicube-86906.web.app/)

## Installation

Download the [build version](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Z-k3tGMK0_rlbONuqD-OUT6Wybnhq__g/view?usp=sharing), unzip it, then use a static site server to run it:

For Node.js serve:

```bash
# install a static site server
npm install -g serve
# on macOS may need to use sudo to install globally
sudo npm install -g serve
# start the server
serve -s HiCube
```
then go to the URL the command print out.

If you have `python3` installed, it also provides a static site server:

```bash
cd HiCube
python -m http.server
```

then go to http://localhost:8000

### Development

Install the LTS version of [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/).

Clone the repository to local:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/wmalab/HiCube.git
```

In the project directory, first run `npm install` to install all the dependencies, then `npm start` to start the app.

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to use HiCube in your browser.


## Usage

See [docs/README.md](/docs/README.md) for how to recreate figure 1.

### Prepare datasets

The example datasets can be downloaded at [shared drive folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/12_kfP9tELVEPKOw7ODgx8x2MVYUvi59T?usp=sharing).

#### Hi-C, 1D or 2D datasets

The 1D and 2D datasets need to be served with [HiGlass Server](https://github.com/higlass/higlass-server) for access. There are two public availalbe HiGlass API servers: http://higlass.io/api/v1 and https://higlass.4dnucleome.org/api/v1 that can be used to access vast amount of public datasets. 
To serve local datasets, the easiest way is to setup a local HiGlass API server with [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) using the [higlass-docker](https://github.com/higlass/higlass-docker) image, and the local API server can be accessed at http://localhost:8888/api/v1 for HiCube.

Create a directory (e.g. `~/hg-data`) to store the cooler files, example files can be downloaded from [shared drive folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/12_kfP9tELVEPKOw7ODgx8x2MVYUvi59T?usp=sharing)

```bash
# Pull the latest image of higlass-docker
docker pull higlass/higlass-docker

# Start docker container
docker run --detach \
	--publish 8888:80 \
	--volume ~/hg-data:/data \
	--volume ~/hg-tmp:/tmp \
	--name higlass-container \
	higlass/higlass-docker

# Add cooler files to server
docker exec higlass-container python higlass-server/manage.py ingest_tileset \
--filename /data/GSE63525_GM12878_diploid_maternal.mcool \
--filetype cooler --datatype matrix --coordSystem hg19

docker exec higlass-container python higlass-server/manage.py ingest_tileset \
--filename /data/GSE63525_GM12878_diploid_paternal.mcool \
--filetype cooler --datatype matrix --coordSystem hg19
```

#### 3D genome structure datasets

HiCube can directly read local 3D genome structure file in .g3d format. Other formats e.g. nucle3d, .3dg, PASTIS output, can be converted to .g3d format using [g3dtools](https://github.com/lidaof/g3d/tree/master/g3dtools). 

Download example from [GSM3271351](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/download/?acc=GSM3271351&format=file&file=GSM3271351%5Fgm12878%5F05%2Eimpute3%2Eround4%2Eclean%2E3dg%2Etxt%2Egz) and convert to .g3d format:

```
g3dtools 3dg GSM3271351_gm12878_05.impute3.round4.clean.3dg.txt.gz \
-o GSM3271351_gm12878_05.impute3.round4.clean \
-n GM12878 \
-g hg19 \
-s 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,25,50
```

A processed example .g3d file can be downloaded from [shared drive folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/12_kfP9tELVEPKOw7ODgx8x2MVYUvi59T?usp=sharing).

### Visualize datasets in HiCube

Before adding datasets to HiCube, users will first need to add public or local API servers (created with Docker) URLs to the **Track Source Servers**, and select a **Genome Assembly** e.g. hg19, mm10, for your datasets. 

![Add server](docs/img/add-server.png)

Then users can start to add public or private datasets by clicking the **Add A New Case** button.

#### Add datasets to create a case

First users need to enter the genome positions for display at *X axis* (required) and *Y axis* (optional), the accepting formats including: 

- a single chromosome name: chr1
- a range of chromosomes separated by -: chr1-chr22
- a range on a single chromosome: chr11:1500000-2400000
- a range span on multiple chromosomes: chr1:100000-chr2:100000

![Genome positions](docs/img/genome-position.png)

The Hi-C dataset (in cooler format) is required to select and will be shown in the center track.

Additionally, a 3D genome structure file (in .g3d format) can be uploaded, and users can select which resolution, and which parental genome or cell (if such category exists) to show.

![Hi-C and 3D](docs/img/hic-3d.png)

Other types of datasets, such as gene annotation, chromosome location, bigWig, etc. can also be added, users can select the track type and which track positions (left, right, top, bottom, center) to display the datasets.

![Additional datasets](docs/img/additional-datasets.png)

Then click **Add A New Case** to display the datasets in the app.

#### Add paired datasets to create a paired case

A second case can be added by clicking the **Add A Paired Case** button, and for each dataset in the existing case, users need to select its paired dataset in the second case.

![Paired case](docs/img/paired-case.png)

The following adjustments will be synchronized between cases:

- navigation i.e. the current displayed genomic region
- zoom view creation and navigation
- annotations
- display options

#### Add zoom view

Switch to the **Tools** tab (3rd tab) in the sidebar, users can choose **Select Zoom Region**, then press and hold down the left mouse button to select the region to zoom, then click **Create Zoom View** to create a zoom view for that region.

![Select zoom region](docs/img/zoom-select.png)

#### Add annotations

Switch to the **Tools** tab (3rd tab) in the sidebar, users can choose **Select Annotation Region**, then press and hold down the left mouse button to select either 1D (on top, left, right, bottom tracks) or 2D (on center track) region, and click **Add Annotation** to show it.

Other ways to add annotations are: enter in the textarea or upload a file contains a list of genomic intervals in the following formats:

For 1D annotations:

```
chrom start-coordinate chrom end-coordinate
```

For 2D annotations:

```
chrom x-ax-start-coordinate chrom x-ax-end-coordinate chrom y-ax-start-coordinate chrom y-ax-end-coordinate
```

![Add annotations](docs/img/add-annotations.png)

Commit message:

add more instruction to start server

README.md, after:

# HiCube

HiCube is a web application provides interactive visualization of multiscale and multimodal Hi-C and 3D genome data. 

HiCube provides following unique features and functionality:

- Paired case synchronization
- Zoom view at higher resolution
- Add configurable annotations

![Overview](docs/img/figure-1.png)

[Demo site](https://hicube-86906.web.app/)

## Installation

Download the [build version](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Z-k3tGMK0_rlbONuqD-OUT6Wybnhq__g/view?usp=sharing), unzip it, then use a static site server, for example serve from Node.js or http.server from python, to run it:

For Node.js [serve](https://npm.io/package/serve):

```bash
# install a static site server
npm install -g serve
# on macOS may need to use sudo to install globally
sudo npm install -g serve
# change the current directory to HiCube
cd HiCube
# start the server
serve -s
```
then go to the URL the command print out.

If you have `python3` installed, it also provides a static site server:

```bash
# change the current directory to HiCube
cd HiCube
# start the server
python -m http.server
```

then go to http://localhost:8000

### Development

Install the LTS version of [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/).

Clone the repository to local:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/wmalab/HiCube.git
```

In the project directory, first run `npm install` to install all the dependencies, then `npm start` to start the app.

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to use HiCube in your browser.


## Usage

See [docs/README.md](/docs/README.md) for how to recreate figure 1.

### Prepare datasets

The example datasets can be downloaded at [shared drive folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/12_kfP9tELVEPKOw7ODgx8x2MVYUvi59T?usp=sharing).

#### Hi-C, 1D or 2D datasets

The 1D and 2D datasets need to be served with [HiGlass Server](https://github.com/higlass/higlass-server) for access. There are two public availalbe HiGlass API servers: http://higlass.io/api/v1 and https://higlass.4dnucleome.org/api/v1 that can be used to access vast amount of public datasets. 
To serve local datasets, the easiest way is to setup a local HiGlass API server with [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) using the [higlass-docker](https://github.com/higlass/higlass-docker) image, and the local API server can be accessed at http://localhost:8888/api/v1 for HiCube.

Create a directory (e.g. `~/hg-data`) to store the cooler files, example files can be downloaded from [shared drive folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/12_kfP9tELVEPKOw7ODgx8x2MVYUvi59T?usp=sharing)

```bash
# Pull the latest image of higlass-docker
docker pull higlass/higlass-docker

# Start docker container
docker run --detach \
	--publish 8888:80 \
	--volume ~/hg-data:/data \
	--volume ~/hg-tmp:/tmp \
	--name higlass-container \
	higlass/higlass-docker

# Add cooler files to server
docker exec higlass-container python higlass-server/manage.py ingest_tileset \
--filename /data/GSE63525_GM12878_diploid_maternal.mcool \
--filetype cooler --datatype matrix --coordSystem hg19

docker exec higlass-container python higlass-server/manage.py ingest_tileset \
--filename /data/GSE63525_GM12878_diploid_paternal.mcool \
--filetype cooler --datatype matrix --coordSystem hg19
```

> `--volume ~/hg-data:/data` and `--volume ~/hg-tmp:/tmp` mount the local directories (path before `:`) to a path inside the container (path after `:`), make sure the path before `:` is an **absolute path** to the directory you store datasets, for example, if you store them at `~/Documents/hg-data`, then use `~/Documents/hg-data` before `:`

#### 3D genome structure datasets

HiCube can directly read local 3D genome structure file in .g3d format. Other formats e.g. nucle3d, .3dg, PASTIS output, can be converted to .g3d format using [g3dtools](https://github.com/lidaof/g3d/tree/master/g3dtools). 

Download example from [GSM3271351](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/download/?acc=GSM3271351&format=file&file=GSM3271351%5Fgm12878%5F05%2Eimpute3%2Eround4%2Eclean%2E3dg%2Etxt%2Egz) and convert to .g3d format:

```
g3dtools 3dg GSM3271351_gm12878_05.impute3.round4.clean.3dg.txt.gz \
-o GSM3271351_gm12878_05.impute3.round4.clean \
-n GM12878 \
-g hg19 \
-s 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,25,50
```

A processed example .g3d file can be downloaded from [shared drive folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/12_kfP9tELVEPKOw7ODgx8x2MVYUvi59T?usp=sharing).

### Visualize datasets in HiCube

Before adding datasets to HiCube, users will first need to add public or local API servers (created with Docker) URLs to the **Track Source Servers**, and select a **Genome Assembly** e.g. hg19, mm10, for your datasets. 

![Add server](docs/img/add-server.png)

Then users can start to add public or private datasets by clicking the **Add A New Case** button.

#### Add datasets to create a case

First users need to enter the genome positions for display at *X axis* (required) and *Y axis* (optional), the accepting formats including: 

- a single chromosome name: chr1
- a range of chromosomes separated by -: chr1-chr22
- a range on a single chromosome: chr11:1500000-2400000
- a range span on multiple chromosomes: chr1:100000-chr2:100000

![Genome positions](docs/img/genome-position.png)

The Hi-C dataset (in cooler format) is required to select and will be shown in the center track.

Additionally, a 3D genome structure file (in .g3d format) can be uploaded, and users can select which resolution, and which parental genome or cell (if such category exists) to show.

![Hi-C and 3D](docs/img/hic-3d.png)

Other types of datasets, such as gene annotation, chromosome location, bigWig, etc. can also be added, users can select the track type and which track positions (left, right, top, bottom, center) to display the datasets.

![Additional datasets](docs/img/additional-datasets.png)

Then click **Add A New Case** to display the datasets in the app.

#### Add paired datasets to create a paired case

A second case can be added by clicking the **Add A Paired Case** button, and for each dataset in the existing case, users need to select its paired dataset in the second case.

![Paired case](docs/img/paired-case.png)

The following adjustments will be synchronized between cases:

- navigation i.e. the current displayed genomic region
- zoom view creation and navigation
- annotations
- display options

#### Add zoom view

Switch to the **Tools** tab (3rd tab) in the sidebar, users can choose **Select Zoom Region**, then press and hold down the left mouse button to select the region to zoom, then click **Create Zoom View** to create a zoom view for that region.

![Select zoom region](docs/img/zoom-select.png)

#### Add annotations

Switch to the **Tools** tab (3rd tab) in the sidebar, users can choose **Select Annotation Region**, then press and hold down the left mouse button to select either 1D (on top, left, right, bottom tracks) or 2D (on center track) region, and click **Add Annotation** to show it.

Other ways to add annotations are: enter in the textarea or upload a file contains a list of genomic intervals in the following formats:

For 1D annotations:

```
chrom start-coordinate chrom end-coordinate
```

For 2D annotations:

```
chrom x-ax-start-coordinate chrom x-ax-end-coordinate chrom y-ax-start-coordinate chrom y-ax-end-coordinate
```

![Add annotations](docs/img/add-annotations.png)
